# NP-Hackathon-Spring-2026-Weed-Detection-System

### What global issue does your project attempt to address?
This project attempts to solve and help with optimizing weed removal in crops and farming. The benefit of this allows for a reduce in resource consumption and to find and focus more on high priority which is especially important in communites that dont have access to many options for removal. This project also attempts to be offered as a template so in the future it can be used to be deployed on low power devices such as phones which may not be able to handle alot processing or a custom made device to run this program. Agriculture is a very important topic to know and understand because it is linked to the issue of hunger as without food many communties will starve which is a fate no human being should ever face in there lives. So this project serves as a way to help with that goal and maybe in the near future will this program be more advanvced and tinkered to be used by even just a person who has nothing but a broken phone.

### What does your project do to address this issue?
As of now this project uses a Machine Learning Model that can process either images, video, or recording and detect any weeds in the vicinity which unfortauntely only detects one type of weed. It then will display the number of weeds in the area it is detecting ranging from a batch to only one and then you can save the number of weeds detected mutiple types allowing for a graph to be displayed with many different areas and there corresponding weed amout. This can be helpful as know which area requires more work can allow for a much faster removel which is very important for a place that may be in total chaos. Even if it is just a few extra mins saved it can be the differance between crops being slowed or not. 

